Driving Questions

Why is the project being undertaken?
  This project is being undertaken to move preventative health upstream into the built environment, social interactions realm, and regular touch points of a community - starting with Arlington, MA. 
  
  What are the goals and objectives?
  To create a knowledge bank of Arlington's ecosystem, composed of all the following subsystems: public spaces, social networks, personal space, daily life flows, town services (used/unused, maintained/not maintained), retail loci, socializing loci, points of trust and distrust,demographics, accessibility, transit system, food system, governance, times and levels of engagement
  
What is the background of the problem that has prompted us?
  Loneliness and social disconnection is a known pathology across the medical/health fields and has been declared a global epidemic/crises. However, the landscape of community health has too-often been summarized on the macro-level (country, region, & states)rather than by township and specific locality. And, since the character of social connection and wellbeing is deeply personal, unique to every individual and group, and has vastly difference causes and consequences, it is neccessary to build a tool that accurately describes a local context and can be effectively used to inform health interventions, policymaking, community-building, and public planning.  

What is required?
  A research backdrop of country, state, and county trends in wellbeing and comunity health. 
  A research backdrop of wellbeing indicators and metrics. 
  A research backdrop in loneliness as a precursor to clinical & chronic illness.
  A detailed dataset of Arlington-specific demographic, geographic, and historical information. 
  Expertise in psychology, medicine, social work, behavior change, economics, and governance.
  Responses and reactions from the residents of Arlington (i.e. focus group discussion). 
  Responses and reactions from public and private-function members of Arlington (i.e. Housing Corporation, senior centers,          Board of Selectmen) . 
  
Who should be involved in your project?
  Experts (i.e. doctors) 
  Community members (retired seniors, parents, adolescents)
  Public resource staff (i.e. librarians) 

What resources are available?
  Peer-reviewed literature
  Global standards of city/state wellbeing
  Access to community opinions
  Access to expert opinions

Project start and finish?
  June 14, 2018 (start) - August 31, 2018 (finish) 

What are the specific dates of each phase?
  Background research (June14-June30)
  Exerpts interviews (June18-present)
  Development of Loneliness Framework V1 (June 30-July9)
  Development of Loneliness Framework Adaptation Tool Design V1 (July1-July9)
  Development of Focus Group Curriculum (July9-July16)
  First Design/LonelinessEquation Iteration AND Project Brief Due: July20
  Second Design/LonelinessEquation Iteration Due: July27
  Third Design/LonelinessEquation Iteration Due: August3
  Fourth Design/LonelinessEquation Iteration Due: August10
  Fifth Design/LonelinessEquation Iteration Due: August17
  Final Design due: August24
  Final Design presentation: August24-August31
  
Where is the project be carried out?
  goInvo Studio in Arlington, MA

What performance indicators can be helpful in evaluating the result?
  Community feedback over multiple iterations.
  
Who will manage the reporting requirements?
Who needs the final report?
  Town of Arlington 
  Social service agencies
